Lun Expansion in 3PAR:: 

 

 

Expanding a LUN (Logical Unit Number) in an HPE 3PAR storage system is a common task to increase the size of a virtual volume. Below is a concise guide to help you through the process: 

 

Steps to Expand a LUN in HPE 3PAR 

1. Check the Current LUN Size 

Log in to the 3PAR Management Console or CLI. 

Use the following CLI command to check the current size of the LUN: 

Copy the code showvv <LUN_name> 

This will display the details of the virtual volume, including its current size. 

 

 

2. Check whether there is enough space in CPG using “showcpg “ cmd.  

 

 

3. Expand the LUN 

To resize the LUN, use the growvv command in the CLI: 

Copy the code growvv  <LUN_name> <size> 

Replace <new_size> with the desired size (e.g., 500G or 1T). 

Replace <LUN_name> with the name of the LUN you want to expand. 

 

4. Verify the Changes 

After resizing, verify the new size using: 

Copy the code showvv <LUN_name> 

 

5. Update the Host System 

On the host system (e.g., Windows, Linux, VMware), rescan the storage to detect the updated LUN size. 

For example:  

Linux: Use rescan-scsi-bus.sh or manually rescan the SCSI bus. 

Windows: Use Disk Management to rescan disks. 

VMware: Rescan the storage adapters in vSphere. 

6. Extend the Filesystem (if applicable) 

If the LUN is already in use, extend the filesystem to utilize the additional space:  

Linux: Use resize2fs (ext4) or xfs_growfs (XFS). 

Windows: Use Disk Management or diskpart. 

VMware: Extend the datastore via vSphere. 

 

Important Notes 

Ensure you have a backup of critical data before making changes. 

Confirm there is sufficient free space in the 3PAR CPG (Common Provisioning Group) to accommodate the LUN expansion. 

If the LUN is part of a cluster or shared storage, coordinate with the relevant teams to avoid disruptions. 

Let me know if you'd like further clarification or assistance! 😊 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FLOWCHART :: 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
